- Let's step back into the legacy application space
for a moment.
Often times, you as a developer, write a feature
and that feature gets staged to a non-prod environment
for an extended period of time.
Once a release is ready is to go,
your feature, and many others,
are packaged up as a release
and moved through several non-prod environments
for integration and testing.
Any defect requires a decision
to hold the release for a fix
or accept the buggy code into the higher environment.
Eventually, sometimes months later,
your code is deployed by someone else,
after you have forgotten about the code you wrote.
This lapse of time, from dev to prod,
often yields a wide gap
between what production looks like
and what development looks like,
increasing a risk of bugs.
Also, these environments tend to be very large
and as such, the resources of a production
are very different than the lower environments.
This difference in resources
can also cause software defects.
It's a vicious cycle
because the time it takes to get a fix to production.
Enter the 12-factor way of dealing with this,
and that very simply is to not allow
a wide gap between your environments.
In a 12-factor world,
the differences between production code and development code
is a few working features at most.
Once a feature is completed,
it is quickly rolled to production
to keep the non-prod and prod environments in synced
as much as possible.
In addition to the code,
the resources and technologies used in production
are the same as those used in non-prod.
Another element outside the code
with regards to dev-prod parody,
is the people involved.
A 12-factor application is often deployed to
a non-production environment
as it is to a production environment,
usually by the same people and processes.
Now, moving a legacy application to this model
is less about code and more about
the software development life cycle for the team
and the ecosystem as a whole that they work in.
The organization needs a fairly radical mindset
to move to this model.
Large companies that I have spoken with
that have evolved to this model,
have gone from one to two releases a year
to as many as 10 to 20 a day or more.
This isn't an easy change
but I have found using example teams
and train-the-trainer type models
helps make this transition smoother.
You will need buy-in to this model,
not only from your development team,
but also the managers.
However, when a feature
that takes time and resources to develop
is available immediately to the customer,
people will quickly notice
and when that annoying bug is quickly fixed,
people will start wanting to be part of that process.